---
layout: page
title: biogeoscapes
---
## BioGeoSCAPES NEWSLETTER #2

February 5, 2020

Thank you for your continued interest in the BioGeoSCAPES initiative. 
BioGeoSCAPES is the concept for a potential future interdisciplinary 
global-scale microbial biogeochemistry program that arose out of a small 
international working group in late 2018 (see the meeting report [here](<https://www.biogeoscapes.org/>) 
and various prior related activities below. BioGeoSCAPES is at an early stage of 
the organizing process, when those interested are gauging and aiming to 
build international community support, as well as discussing potential 
science objectives and parameters.

Upcoming plans include organizing national meetings to continue gauging 
interest and brainstorming scientific goals (see below). In addition, 
initial intercalibration efforts are being encouraged for potential 
parameters such as the recently organized metagenomic and metaproteomic 
intercalibration projects (see below). Future sessions at international 
meetings are also being organized, such as at the Ocean Sciences Meeting 
in San Diego (CA, USA) in 2020 (see below).

In parallel, we would like to find a way to facilitate the inclusion of 
more nations and researchers in BioGeoSCAPES activities. To help with 
this we have begun a list of ambassadors based on those who participated 
in the Woods Hole Scoping meeting and share it [here](
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/0/d/1dG2Manobov6d5tuhU4QFWceCZGm9HQIkQz_Gyb435TQ/htmlview).
Please have a look and if you wish to add your name, please send an 
email to info@biogeoscapes.org.

### Some highlights of the most recent, ongoing and upcoming activities 
include:

- An Ocean Metaproteomic Intercomparison [effort] 
(https://www.us-ocb.org/intercomparison-and-intercalibration-metaproteomics/) 
is underway funded by the US Ocean Carbon Biogeochemistry (OCB) program. 
Intercomparison samples were recently sent to participating groups, and 
there are opportunities for a few more laboratories to join. A workshop 
to discuss results is planned for May 14-17, 2020.

- A series of EU participants at the 2018 WHOI BioGeoSCAPES workshop 
(Alessandro Tagliabue, Ingrid Obernoster, Daniele Iudicone, Chris 
Bowler, Yeala Shaked and Martha Gledhill) submitted a EU-COST action 
proposal with multiple EU partners, entitled "Cells to SeaSCAPES: 
Nutrient regulation of Ocean Metabolism" in the fall 2019, to develop 
an EU wide BioGeoSCAPES network, outlining protocols and planning 
intercalibrations, field campaigns and experiments. The results of this 
proposal will be known in March 2020.

- 1st China BioGeoSCAPES Planning Workshop, Academic Exchange Center, 
Xiamen University, Xiangâ€™an Campus, October 20-21, 2019. Organizer: 
Dalin Shi

- 1st Canada BioGeoSCAPES Planning Workshop; Halifax, Nova Scotia, 
October 25-27, 2019.  Organizers: Erin Bertrand, Steven Hallam and Maite 
Maldonado

- Ocean nucleic acids 'omics intercalibration and standardization 
Workshop; January 9-11, 2020; University of North Carolina Chapel Hill; 
funded by the US Ocean Carbon Biogeochemistry (OCB) program. A more 
complete description of this activity is available [here]( 
(https://www.us-ocb.org/ocean-nucleic-acids-omics-workshop/).

- Three BioGeoSCAPES Sessions at the Ocean Sciences Meeting, San Diego, 
USA, February 16-21, 2020, entitled "Toward BioGeoSCAPES: Exploring 
Molecular Drivers of Ocean Metabolism and Biogeochemistry"

[I (OB53B), Talks, Thursday, February 20, 14:00-16:00]
(https://agu.confex.com/agu/osm20/prelim.cgi/Session/93195)

[III (OB44J), Posters, Thursday, February 20, 16:00-18:00 ]
(https://agu.confex.com/agu/osm20/prelim.cgi/Session/84717)

[II (OB43C), Talks, Friday, February 21, 14:00-16:00]
(https://agu.confex.com/agu/osm20/prelim.cgi/Session/93199)

1st France BioGeoSCAPES Planning Workshop; May 4-7, 2020; Toulouse. 
Organizers: Catherine Jeandel, Ingrid Obernoster and Damien Cardinal

- Proposal funded for [USA BioGeoSCAPES Planning Workshop]
(https://www.us-ocb.org/ocb-scoping-workshop-laying-the-foundation-for-a-potential-future-biogeoscapes-program/)
(~70 participants) in the fall of 2020, entitled Laying the foundation 
for a potential future BioGeoSCAPES program: Assessing needs and 
capabilities for studying controls on ocean metabolism through 
integrated omics and biogeochemistry, by Ben Twining, Mak Saito, Alyson 
Santoro, Adrian Marchetti, Naomi Levine.

BioGeoSCAPES related science is also being promoted on social media 
through the Twitter account "@BioGeoSCAPES". If you have any highlights 
for the Twitter feed, please share them with us at 
info@biogeoscapes.org. The latest news and archived newsletters are also 
available on the [Biogeoscapes.org website](https://www.biogeoscapes.org/).

Thanks for showing interest in BioGeoSCAPES!

Sincerely,

Maite Maldonado, Adrian Marchetti, Mak Saito, and Alessandro Tagliabue
